Is sleeping is kinematic use, gravity and velocity.
In this video, we'll cover these very powerful, useful physics properties.
We'll learn about turning on and off physics for each game object.
We'll learn why we want to do that sometimes.
Then we'll open up the Unity editor.
We'll play with these properties.
Let's recap some of the important physics properties.
Imagine we've got a stack of cubes and one of those cubes is selected.
It's got a box collider with some properties and a rigid body that has properties as well.
Some of these properties are accessible from the inspector and also from code for example is kinematic
and use gravity.
However, some properties are accessible only from code, for example is sleeping and velocity.
Let's take a look at rigid body is kinematic.
This controls whether the physics in the system affects this rigid body or not.
By default it's set to false.
The game object will behave under physics control.
Sometimes we want to set it to true, and then the physics forces collisions and joints will be ignored.
Setting it to true will give our game object the opportunity to be driven by scripting instead of the
physics system.
We can even toggle it in certain scenarios.
We could start with it true with a game object driven by scripting.
And then when our character gets hit, for example, we could quickly turn it into a ragdoll and it
would fall believably to the ground.
By setting is kinematic to false rigid body use gravity.
This controls whether gravity affects this rigid body or not.
By default it's set to true, and that allows the object to fall under the forces of gravity.
Sometimes we want to set it to false.
If we want to behave like we're in outer space where there's no gravity affected, or if we want more
manual control over the objects.
Motion rigid body is sleeping.
While this is not actually a property, it's a method as seen by the parentheses.
After it we can get the value just like a property.
This lets us know is the rigid body sleeping?
When a rigid body is moving very slowly, the physics engine assumes it has come to a halt and it sets
it into a sleeping mode.
This optimization saves processor time for most purposes.
Sleeping and waking happens automatically, so we can just assume when it's in motion is sleeping is
false and when it's finally at rest is sleeping is true.
Our focus, for example, is to detect when our character has stopped moving or an item in the game
has stopped moving.
For example, if my character shoots an arrow at a target, the arrow flies through the air and eventually
comes to a stop.
When it comes to a stop is sleeping would be true.
I could check that and know, okay, it's ready for another arrow to be shot.
Rigid body velocity.
The velocity vector of the rigid body is held in this vector rigid body velocity.
This is the velocity vector of the rigid body.
It's the direction and speed of movement.
In most cases, you should not modify the velocity directly as this can result in unrealistic behavior.
However, there are exceptions.
A typical usage is where you would change the velocity immediately in a first person shooter.
When your character jumps, you want to have that quick change in velocity so you could set it directly.
Our focus is typically to access the value without setting it just to get the object speed.
For example, if we want to show the speedometer of a physics based car onto the screen, we could get
this value.
Let's talk about turning off the physics.
Sometimes games may turn off physics for a specific object during gameplay.
For example, we want to move the objects with the mouse input instead of physics.
There's two properties we need to toggle here if we want to turn on and off the physics to turn it off,
we set the use gravity to false and is kinematic to true.
Now we can control the movement of that rigid body with code When we're ready to turn movement back
on for physics based control, we can set use gravity to true and is kinematic to false.
Then it would fall back under gravity and behave with joints and physics forces, etc..
Let's create a demo that uses all of these properties we've talked about and see how they can work together.
I created a scene called the Dropper Game.
Let's play the scene.
It's a very simplistic game.
We will inspect the code and we'll look at how these four properties are being used.
We wait for the user's next turn.
By using is sleeping.
We show the speed on a UI using the velocity and we use that combination of mouse drag versus falling
By using the two properties is kinematic and use gravity.
All right.
Here we are back in unity.
Let's take a look at the proper game scene.
And we'll see how these properties for physics are used in the gameplay.
Let's go ahead and give it a play.
So there's four properties we're talking about One as the as the dropper box drops, the velocity on
screen is using the velocity property.
Secondly, after the box drops and hits the rail at the bottom, the box, the next box becomes available
for me to use.
So you can see there's a couple of seconds dropping and then another box ready for me to use.
The way that I handle that is I wait until the is sleeping is true for the following box.
So it's sleeping is false.
And then when it finally hits, their sleeping is true, and then it's my turn again.
So that's two of the properties.
Also, notice how I can control the box with my mouse.
So while it's using a rigid body, I have settings set so that I can move it manually.
I turn gravity off and I turn is kinematic on.
And then once I click with my mouse, then I turn kinematic off and I turn gravity on.
So let's take a look at the code for that.
So there's four spots where I access those one here.
Every time I add a new dropper, you can see the comment access physics properties.
What I'm doing there is I'm setting the gravity false kinematic true.
That lets me have mouse control.
Then in the update, which is called every frame, I then if I click the mouse button, then I toggle
the gravity back on and turn kinematic to false.
That lets it fall under the natural forces of gravity.
Also, while it's falling in the update, eye check is sleeping.
If it is sleeping, then it's ready for the next turn.
So I score some points and then I go ahead and.
Release the next dropper.
And then finally, I.
Capture the max velocity so that I reward points based on how fast the block was going at its fastest.
It's a silly mechanic and it's an excuse to use velocity, but it rewards more points for dropping from
a higher height.
And that's it.
In the next video, we'll look at physics, recast and recast Command Schedule batch.
In this video, we'll cover what are spatial queries in a physics system.
How and why are they useful to us, and what do we do with them?